#Fleet Assignment Problem  
The Airlines industry is a very competitive market. An aircraft seat is considered to be one of the most perishable commodities in the world. Every time an aircraft takes off with an empty seat, there is revenue lost. Each Airline tries to maximize its profits and tries to find the best schedules in order to achieve the same. However, this decision marking is very complex due to the large size of the problem (many airports and many routes). It involves servicing multiple airports each with its own set of restrictions, running different aircraft types with different operational costs, and scheduling the crew based on their requirements and regulations.

In this project we deal with one such Airline operational problem - the fleet assignment problem. An airline has several flight legs every day which is done using aircrafts from different fleets. The fleet assignment problem is to assign fleets (aircrafts) to the airline schedule (flight legs) so that seats are filled with paying passengers.. Both the size of the fleets and the different types of aircraft have a big impact on the scheduling. The trade-off here is the operational cost of a fleet vs the capacity or demand of the passengers at that time. If the airline uses a small plane it can take less passengers and incurs a small operational cost, while if it uses a large fleet, it can take many passengers (more revenue) but also incurs a higher operational cost. In order to maximize the profit, the goal would be to choose the right assignment of fleet, i.e. to have the right fleet in the right airport at the right time. Constraints related to time, the availability of the fleet, and how they can possibly operate makes this an interesting and non-trivial problem.

We have used the paper “Coldstart: Fleet Assignment at Delta Air Lines.” for references and definitions.
